Emerald Kaizo AI Analysis 
 
There are 13 AI flags in base Emerald. Only six of these are used on enemy trainers, the other 
eight are either unused or used in special circumstances such as the safari zone so will not be 
covered. The flags that an AI uses are noted in the master sheet by a number in square 
brackets next to their name. The guide to these is as follows. 
●    1: Check Bad Move 
●    5: Check Bad Move, Check Viability 
●    7: Check Bad Move, Try To Faint, Check Viability 
●    11: Check Bad Move, Try To Faint, Setup First Turn 
●    15: Check Bad Move, Try To Faint, Check Viability, Setup First Turn 
●    23: Check Bad Move, Try To Faint, Check Viability, Risky 
 
1 is used by only a handful of trainers in the game, and 5 is used exclusively by the level 70 
Ralts joke fight. 7 is the default which is used by all trainers that do not have a specified number. 
11 is used only 5 times in the game, but one of those is on Wallace in Sootopolis Gym. 15 is 
used twice in the game, once being on Sidney in the Elite 4. Finally, flag 23, the infamous "Risky 
AI" is used on Winona and more than a dozen other trainers, primarily Team Aqua and Magma 
enemies. 
 
The sixth important flag is the double battle AI, it is applied to every double battle in the game in 
addition to their normal AI. Note that all flags other than the double battle flag are ignored when 
checking moves with their ally as the possible target, using only the double battle flag. 
 
In a double battle, both sets of AI flags are combined. This is how we get the second 15, a 
double battle with an AI 11 and an AI 7. 
 
The basic idea of how the AI works is that each move is given a score via running a set of rules 
over it, once it totals up all of these scores it picks the move with the highest score. If multiple 
moves are tied best, it picks one of them at random. 
 
For all the specific score breakdowns, refer to this document. This document will exist largely 
just to be an analysis of how these factors interact in the context of Emerald Kaizo and will only 
briefly cover those to be able to better combine multiple move logics. 
 
Note: This guide attempts to be written in the context of EK. Abilities and moves that are not 
mentioned if they are not in EK, and logic around things such as if the player has boosted 
evasion will not be mentioned due to the lack of ability to boost evasion as the player. 
 
Smart AI 
This is essentially the baseline that all AI build off in EK, and the smart AI of the base game. An 
important piece of information is that the AI does not cheat, the AI stores information on any 
moves, abilities, or items it sees the player use and bases any logic off these. It forgets this 
information whenever you switch out, having to learn from nothing again the next time you 
switch in. 
 
First, the AI avoids any move that would fail, whether due to immunity, ability, trying to use 
Substitute at low HP, Teleport in a trainer battle, or anything else. However, see the Dual 
Non-Immunity Glitch and Intimidate Knowledge Glitch sections in the appendix, sometimes the 
AI does not actually see your ability or immunities correctly so does not avoid all moves that it 
should. It also avoids explosion or self destruct if it is on its last pokemon. A notable outlier is 
that the AI does not look for flinch immunity with Fake Out, so will not treat Fake Out as worth 
avoiding if the player is known to have Inner Focus. 
 
Next, the AI looks for a kill. It will by default put a move that can kill at +4 score. Explosion and 
Self Destruct never get the +4 for being able to kill. Priority moves that can kill get an additional 
+2 score, Fake Out does not count here only getting the normal +4 for a kill. Note that as per the 
Fake Out section Fake Out does get an additional +2 on the first turn, so will normally get 
chosen over other non-priority moves, but not other priority moves. 
 
If a move cannot kill, then it gives that move a -1 score if it is a damaging move other than the 
highest damage move and is not discouraged or power 1. The AI calculates if a move is highest 
damage by rolling damage for all moves other than discouraged or power 1 moves, ignoring crit 
chance, accuracy, or absorbing abilities. All other moves have a ~69% chance of getting +2 
score if they would be doubly super effective, even if a status move. 
 
Note that it is possible no damaging moves are at +0 score, such as if the highest damage 
move is Thunderbolt on a Lanturn with Volt Absorb, Volt Absorb will cause Thunderbolt to be 
placed in the bad category, but it is still the highest damage move otherwise so other moves 
would still get the -1 score. This also happens if the move would be unusable for some reason, 
such as being out of PP or being disabled. 
 
This means that after the first two checks, our scores should look as follows.  
 
+6 
Priority moves that can kill (not Fake Out) 
+4 
Moves other than Explosion or Self Destruct, and power 1 moves that can kill 
+2 
Status moves, power 1 moves, discouraged moves, and the highest damage move if 
they are doubly super effective, ~69% of the time 
+0 
The highest damage move if the target lacks an absorbing ability; all other moves, 
including any status move, power 1 move, or discouraged move that is not doubly 
super effective the other ~31% of the time 
-1 
Damaging moves that are not the highest damage move. Explosion or Self Destruct if 
both the player and AI are on their last pokemon. 
Bad 
Any move that would fail or the target would be immune to. Explosion or Self Destruct 
if the AI is on their last pokemon but the player is not. These will be in the range of -5 
to -12 score. 
-100 
Moves that cannot be used at all (normally out of PP) 
 
All future analysis will be in reference to this table, and whether a move would ever be picked 
over the highest damage move, or over a kill. Conversely, whether it can cause a move to not 
be picked despite being those.  
 
The following section tackles moves on a move by move basis, it is recommended to use a find 
feature or the contents to search for the relevant moves. A move is only listed here if at least 
one trainer in Emerald Kaizo has it according to the master sheet. All moves are run through the 
following section, regardless of their score from these initial checks, a move that kills, a move 
that will fail, or anything else, it still runs through the following section. 
 
Ability Changing Moves 
            Moves: Skill Swap 
The AI is looking for certain abilities to swap to in this step. The abilities are Battle Armor, 
Chlorophyll, Cute Charm, Effect Spore, Huge Power, Marvel Scale, Pure Power, Rain Dish, 
Sand Veil, Shed Skin, Shield Dust, Speed Boost, Static, Swift Swim, or Wonder Guard 
 
If the target does not have any of these abilities or the user currently has one, the move gets -1 
score making it unlikely to ever be used. If the target does have any of these abilities, it has an 
80% chance of giving this to +2 score making it very likely to be used over a non-kill move. 
 
Note this move in EK is only ever seen in double battles, and the double battles section of this 
document covers in more detail how this works. 
Always Hit 
            Moves: Aerial Ace, Faint Attack, Magical Leaf, Shadow Punch, Shock Wave, Swift 
These moves only have special logic if the user has been dropped to at least -3 accuracy, so it 
is unlikely they will ever have special prioritization in practice, but sufficient use of sand-attack 
can trigger this. 
 
If the user is at -3 accuracy or lower, the moves get boosted to +1 score ~61% of the time, 
making them reasonably likely to be used. If the user is at -5 accuracy or lower, the move gets 
an additional +1 making it either +1 or +2 score, and thus will almost always be used over a 
non-kill move. 
Attack Boosting Moves 
            Moves: Swords Dance, Meditate 
The use of these moves is somewhat complicated, being based on both the user's current HP 
and current attack stages. If the user is at +3 attack or higher, there is a 61% of an additional -1 
score beyond the following table. 
 
 
100% HP 
If the user is at +2 attack or lower, there is a 50% chance of +1 score, and 
otherwise no change. 
71-99% HP 
No change. 
40-70% HP 
84% of -2 score 
0-39% HP 
-2 score 
 
Due to this, the AI is very unlikely to ever boost if already boosted to at least +3, or at 70% or 
lower HP. It should essentially never boost if at less than 40% HP if it has any alternatives. It is 
however very likely to boost if it is unboosted and at full HP. 
Attack Lowering Moves 
            Moves: Charm 
If your attack has been lowered, Charm gets -1 score, with an additional -1 if the user is under 
90% HP, and a high chance of another -1 if you are already down to -3 attack or lower. As a 
result, the AI will rarely ever use Charm on something that already has lowered attack. 
 
If your attack has not already been lowered, the AI will avoid Charm if at 70% HP or less via a -2 
score. Assuming it is above 70% HP, the AI will leave Charm at +0 and thus reasonably likely if 
its target has a physical type, or about 20% of the time if it has only special types. If it does not 
find these, it will put it at -2 and thus will almost never be used. However, there is a bug here 
and it does not see Flying, Poison, or Ghost as physical types for this purpose. 
 
As a result, the AI will normally only ever use Charm while at >70% HP, and will only very rarely 
use it if the target does not have a physical type other than Flying, Ghost, and Poison. 
Baton Pass 
            Moves: Baton Pass 
The AI encourages Baton Pass only if its attack, special attack, defense, special defense, or 
evasion is at least at +3 stages or higher and the user is at low HP, there is a ~69% chance of 
+2 score. Low HP here is 60% or lower if the user is faster, and 70% or lower if the target is 
faster. If the HP is high or the chance was missed, there is no change. 
 
If the user is instead at +2 stages in one of the aforementioned stats, Baton Pass gets -2 score 
if at high HP as per the previous HP thresholds. If the user is at +1 or lower in all of the 
aforementioned stats, Baton Pass always gets a -2 score. 
 
The most notable factor about the Baton Pass logic is that speed boosts are not considered a 
reason to switch. This in conjunction with always getting a -2 score while unboosted means that 
if a pokemon is only boosted in speed, it should never Baton Pass given a non-bad alternative. 
Baton Pass is also only ever encouraged over best damaging move while at +3 or higher, so the 
move should rarely be seen in practice. 
Belly Drum 
            Moves: Belly Drum 
Belly Drum gets a -2 score if the user is 90% or lower HP. As a result, almost any chip damage 
should prevent the use of Belly Drum. 
Brick Break 
            Moves: Brick Break 
Brick Break gets +1 score if you are protected by Reflect. This will allow it to be chosen even if it 
is not the best damaging move, and if it is the best damaging move it can push the +0 status 
moves out of contention for being chosen. Note that it only checks for Reflect, not Light Screen. 
Charge Up 
            Moves: Solarbeam 
Solarbeam is the only move that still has a charge up turn and is on an AI trainer in Emerald 
Kaizo. The AI does not care about the presence of Sun in determining whether or not to use 
Solarbeam, and it is important to note that Solarbeam is always +0 by default due to being a 
discouraged move, regardless of how much damage it does. The exception is in the case of a 
pokemon that is double weak to solar beam, as then it may be +2 score. 
 
The AI should never use Solarbeam if it is resisted or it knows you have either Protect or Detect, 
via a -2 score. 
 
If the AI has 38% HP or less, it gives a minor discouragement of -1 score, so it is still likely to 
never be used. 
 
If neither of those criteria were met, it remains unchanged. As a result of these, the AI will 
almost always always have a chance of using Solarbeam if it is unresisted and the AI is at high 
HP. If you have a pokemon out that is doubly weak to Grass such as Golem then it may go for 
Solarbeam even if it is not the highest damage move somehow. Conversely, if you have a 
pokemon out that resists Solarbeam, it will almost never go for it even if it is the highest damage 
move. 
Confusing Moves 
            Moves: Confuse Ray, Supersonic, Sweet Kiss, Flatter^, Swagger^ 
These moves are treated almost identically so are grouped together, although Swagger and 
Flatter have an additional clause. 
 
For Swagger and Flatter, before running the normal logic it has a 50% chance of giving them an 
additional +1. After that the normal logic that applies to all five of these moves runs, for each HP 
threshold of 70%, 50%, and 30% that the target is at or below, it has a 50% chance of giving a 
-1 score. 
 
In practice, this means that the AI is most likely to use Swagger and Flatter while you are at high 
HP, with a high chance thanks to the +1 score, and a moderate chance for other confusing 
moves. As your HP decreases the chance of the AI using confusing moves rapidly decreases, 
as the chance of being at +0 starts at 50% while in the 50-70% range, halving again for each of 
the lower two ranges. 
Conversion 
            Moves: Conversion 
The AI will almost never use Conversion unless it is the first turn of battle and it is at >90% HP. 
In that scenario, Conversion is at +0 so moderately likely. If the AI is at >90% HP and it is not 
the first turn of the battle, it has only a 20% chance to be at +0. If it's below 90% HP or the 20% 
chance wasn't met, it is at -2 score, and thus will almost never be picked. 
Countering Moves 
            Moves: Counter, Mirror Coat 
Counter and Mirror Coat are somewhat complex moves that appear to be buggy, and 
importantly have radically different logic when a pokemon knows both of the moves than when it 
knows just one. 
 
Regardless of whether one or both is known, if the target is infatuated, confused, or asleep this 
is given -1 score and no additional logic is run. 
 
Assuming that you are not infatuated, confused, or asleep, there are two HP thresholds 
checked. -1 96% of the time if user is <30% HP, and an additional -1 61% of the time if user is 
<50% HP. 
 
At this point, the move should have either +0, -1, or -2 score based off the user's HP. 
 
Now the special logic kicks in, if the user both Mirror Coat and Counter it has a 61% of +4 score, 
and a 39% of remaining unchanged. This is not very relevant in EK as no pokemon has both 
mirror coat and counter other than wobbuffet, but it does lead to a significantly higher usage of 
these than destiny bond, encore, or charm. Since the logic is the same for both, it makes it pure 
RNG whether counter or mirror coat is chosen on a given turn. 
 
Assuming the AI only has one of Mirror Coat or Counter logic progresses differently, and it now 
checks the most recent used move by its target. If it just switched in and has yet to use a move, 
it has the same effect as a status move for this. 
 
If the move was a status move, and the user has only the opposing type, it has an ~49% of +4 
score. For example, a Water type on Counter, or a Bug/Steel on Mirror Coat, but not a 
Water/Flying on Counter or Mirror Coat. 
If the move was a damaging move of the matching type (so special type with Mirror Coat), it has 
a ~61% of +1 score. 
If the move was a damaging move of the opposing type, it gets -1 score. 
 
To address how that all comes together, if the user most recently used a status move there is a 
not insignificant chance it will counter/mirror coat over even a kill, ~25% at high HP. It is also 
generally very likely to counter if your most recent move was a damaging move the matching 
type. 
 
There is one additional interaction, if you have out a pokemon such as Aggron that is double 
weak to fighting, remember that Counter has a chance of getting an additional +2 score thus 
making it significantly more likely to be used regardless of what move you used or what HP it is 
at. 
Curse 
            Moves: Curse 
This move has two entirely distinct sets of logic if the user is Ghost type compared to if they are 
not. 
 
If the user is Ghost type, there is a ~69% chance of -1 score. This means that in general, curse 
will be rarely used by ghost types, +0 score and winning the tie is only about a 1/6th chance. 
 
For non ghost types, it is based off defense stage thresholds. For each threshold that the user 
meets of +3 or below, +1 or below, and +0 or below, there is a 50% chance of a +1 score. This 
means that curse while unboosted or even only a single +1 boost has a relatively high chance to 
be prioritized. 
Defense Boosting Moves 
            Moves: Bulk Up, Harden, Acid Armor, Iron Defense 
These moves are encouraged if the user has 100% HP and is +2 defense or lower, with a 50% 
chance of +2 score. If the user has at least +3 special defense, there is a 61% chance of -1 
score.  
 
If the user has less than 40% HP, it receives an additional -2 score. If the user is at least 70% 
HP, there is a 78% chance to not run the final check. 
 
The final check runs if the check while above 70% HP fails, or while the pokemon is between 
40% and 70% HP. It checks the most recently used move by the target, with chances of 100% if 
special, 59% if physical, and 77% if status, it applies a -2 score. 
 
Overall this means that the AI is reasonably likely to lead with a defense boosting move if it has 
one, around 75% chance normally. If it has had its HP lowered however the chance is much 
smaller, dropping significantly once it drops below 70% HP, and to effectively zero when below 
40% HP. 
Defense Lowering Moves 
            Moves: Tickle 
Tickle is only on a few early game trainers and essentially doesn't matter. However, it is at +0 by 
default at high HP causing it to have a reasonable chance to be used. Once the user drops 
below 70% HP or the target drops down to -3 attack the chance plummets, with an automatic -2 
if below 70% and an additional -2 80% of the time if either is met. In practice this means it will 
almost never be used once you hit the pokemon once. 
 
Destiny Bond 
            Moves: Destiny Bond 
Destiny Bond always gets a -1 score, making it always unlikely to be used. If the user is faster 
than the target it gains a bonus based off HP thresholds, 50% of +1 at 70% HP, 50% of +1 at 
50% HP, and 61% of +2 at 30% HP. 
 
This means that the AI should only rarely use destiny bond while it is slower, and even while 
faster it should only use it once its HP starts to drop. 
Disable 
            Moves: Disable 
Disable is relatively straightforward, if the target is faster, the move is left unchanged. If however 
the user is faster, it receives a +1 score if the most recent move by the target was a damaging 
move, and 61% of -1 score if it was a status move. 
 
Only a single AI trainer has this, and only on a single pokemon. As it is a dewgong at a point in 
the game you will be relatively overleveled, you should almost always be able to outspeed this 
causing it to have an unchanged score. If for some reason you underspeed, it will be extremely 
trigger happy with this move if the most recent move you used was a damaging move. 
Dragon Dance 
            Moves: Dragon Dance 
This move receives a 50% chance of +1 score while it is slower than the target, and a 73% 
chance of -1 score while it is below half HP. These do not stack, if it is slower the HP check is 
not made. 
 
Due to this the AI will generally be quite likely to use this in order to speed control, but once it is 
faster it will still have a chance to use it, although this chance drops significantly while it is at low 
HP. 
Draining Moves 
            Moves: Giga Drain, Leech Life, Mega Drain 
Draining moves receive a -3 score 80% of the time while resisted. This allows them to be 
potentially unchosen even if a certain kill, or more likely to be rarely chosen when a pokemon 
has multiple options to kill of which this is one. 
Dream Eater 
            Moves: Dream Eater 
Dream Eater receives a -1 score if the target resists the move. This causes it to lose ties, such 
as when given two options that can kill, Dream Eater will not be picked. 
Encore 
            Moves: Encore 
Encore receives a -2 score if the target is faster than the user, allowing you to manipulate the AI 
into not encoring via speed control. 
 
Assuming the user is faster than the AI, it checks a long list of moves, and if the most recently 
used move by the target was any of the following, it has an 88% of +3 score. If it is none of 
these moves, it receives a -2 score. The +3 allows it to outweigh essentially anything other than 
kills. 
 
Encore Moves: Attract, Camouflage, Charge, Confuse Ray, Conversion, Conversion 2, Detect, 
Dream Eater, Encore, Endure, Fake Out, Follow Me, Foresight, Glare, Growth, Harden, Haze, 
Heal Bell, Imprison, Ingrain, Knock Off, Light Screen, Mean Look, Mud Sport, Poisonpowder, 
Protect, Recycle, Refresh, Rest, Roar, Role Play, Safeguard, Skill Swap, Stun Spore, Super 
Fang, Supersonic, Swagger, Sweet Kiss, Teeter Dance, Thief, Thunder Wave, Toxic, Water 
Sport, Will-O-Wisp 
Endeavor 
            Moves: Endeavor 
Endeavor is discouraged if the target is <70% HP via -1 score, and thus will almost never get 
picked if you have taken some damage. 
 
If the target has at least 70% HP on the other hand, it receives +1 if above a HP threshold, and 
-1 if below it. That HP threshold is 40% if the user is faster, and 50% if the target is faster. This 
means fairly intuitively that if the user is low HP and the target is high HP, it'll almost always use 
the move, and it'll almost never use the move if that is not the case. 
Endure 
            Moves: Endure 
Endure gets -1 score if the user is not in the range of 4% - 34% HP, if it is in that range, it has a 
73% chance of +1 score. 
 
The relatively narrow band of the HP range here and the fact it is always discouraged when not 
within that range should make it relatively predictable, having a very high chance of being used 
when within the HP range and a low chance outside of it. 
Evasion Boosting Moves 
            Moves: Double Team 
Evasion boosting is somewhat complicated, as it has several distinct checks and the score from 
all of those checks stack. All of these checks are made. 
 
If the user has 90%+ HP, there is a ~61% chance of +3 score. 
If the user has +3 or higher evasion, 50% chance of -1 score 
If the target is badly poisoned, +3 score with chance 80% if >50% HP, 55% chance if lower 
If the user has less than 40% HP, -2 score 
If the user is not on +0 evasion and has 41-70% HP, 73% chance of -2 score 
 
Overall, this means that the AI is quite unlikely to ever use double team unless it is on very high 
HP, having a chance still if on high HP and not significantly boosted, and much higher if you 
have been Toxic'd. It is actually possible for it to go for double team over a kill if it is on 90%+ 
HP and you are badly poisoned. 
Evasion Lowering Moves 
            Moves: Sweet Scent 
This move remains at +0 score always if the target and user are both on 70%+ HP and is on -2 
evasion or higher. Once the AI is below 70% HP, it is only a 20% chance of being +0. In the 
extremely niche case the AI is above 70% HP and you are on -3 evasion or lower, the 20% also 
applies. 
 
Due to these factors, on the one trainer with Sweet Scent, the AI should generally only use it as 
long as both of you are at high HP, switching over to only damage or sleep powder once your 
HP starts to lower. 
Facade 
            Moves: Facade 
If the target is burned, paralyzed, poisoned, or badly poisoned, +1 score. This mostly means 
that if Facade is not the highest damage move, it will still be weighted at +0 same as that if the 
target is statused. This is counterintuitive, but the AI does check whether the target is statused, 
not the user. 
Fake Out 
            Moves: Fake Out 
Fake Out always gets +2 score, so it will be chosen over almost everything other than a kill on 
the first turn a pokemon is out. 
Focus Punch 
            Moves: Focus Punch 
Focus Punch has a few steps, as follows. If the target resists the move, it is given -1 score; if the 
target is asleep, it is given +1 score; and if it is the first turn the user is out there is a 61% 
chance of +1 score. 
 
In practice this means that Focus Punch is quite unlikely to ever be used if you resist, but with 
the proviso that if Focus Punch is highest damage despite the rest all damaging moves would 
likely be -1 and thus it would be a random move. In addition, the AI is quite likely to focus punch 
if asleep, capable of doing so even if not the best damage move, and a chance of doing so if it 
is the first turn it is out. 
Forced Switch Moves 
            Moves: Roar, Whirlwind 
These moves receive a +2 score 50% of the time if the target is boosted to at least +3 stages in 
attack, special attack, defense, special defense, or evasion, and receives a -3 score if that 
criteria is not met. 
 
In practice this means the AI should almost never choose these moves, as actually reaching +3 
in one of those stats is incredibly rare in Emerald Kaizo unless you decide to set up with 
Sunflora on one of these pokemon for some reason. 
HP Restoring Moves 
            Moves: Milk Drink, Softboiled, Moonlight, Morning Sun, Recover, Slack Off, Swallow, 
Synthesis 
 
These are interesting, and quite notable as there is some unexpected logic here. The AI gets a 
-3 score if it is at 100% HP, making it almost never used. However, if it is below 100% HP, it gets 
a -8 score if it is faster than the target. 
 
If it is slower than the target, and below 100% HP there is only a single HP threshold. If at 70% 
or more HP it has an 88% chance of -3 score, if that chance fails or it is below 70% HP, it has a 
92% chance of +2 score. 
 
Due to the interactions of these factors, in practice the AI should effectively never use HP 
restoring moves while it is faster than the player. While it is slower, it will use HP restoring 
moves while at 70%+ HP rarely, but while below 70% HP it will almost always heal, having 
upwards of a 95% chance to heal in normal circumstances. 
Heal Bell 
            Moves: Heal Bell 
This move in contrast to most does not get an increased score in its favored conditions, instead 
getting a penalty when in unfavorable conditions. Specifically, this move gets a -5 penalty if no 
pokemon within the users party or the user itself are statused, and remains unchanged 
otherwise. 
 
As a result of the above, it should never be used when there is nothing to heal, and even when 
there is a status to heal would have no more than a 50% chance normally. 
High Crit 
            Moves: Blaze Kick, Aeroblast, Crabhammer, Cross Chop, Dragon Claw, Drill Peck, Drill 
Run, Karate Chop, Leaf Blade, Razor Leaf, Slash, X-scissors 
While more infamous for the favoritism in Risky AI, normal AI favors high crit moves as well. A 
high critical move has a 50% chance of getting +1 score if the move is super effective on the 
target, 25% if the move is neutral, and 0% if the move is resisted. 
 
This means that unless you resist the move, there is always a chance that it will go for a high crit 
move over the highest damage move. Due to equal weighting around 1 in 8 for neutral moves 
and 1 in 4 for super effective moves, assuming no other moves with unusual weighting. 
Imprison 
            Moves: Imprison 
Imprison has a 61% chance of getting a +2 score, if it is not the first turn the user is out. 
 
As a result, the AI is generally quite likely to use Imprison as long as it is not already imprisoning 
a pokemon. 
Knock Off 
            Moves: Knock Off 
If the AI has at least 30% HP and it is not their first turn in the battle then they have a 27% 
chance of +1 score. Knock Off is only considered a bad move when the target is known to have 
Sticky Hold, not if it's known to have no item. 
 
Knock Off will get picked quite rarely as a result if it's not the highest damage move, but it has a 
chance to be used. 
Leech Seed + Toxic 
            Moves: Leech Seed, Toxic 
For an unknown reason both of these moves use exactly the same logic at this step, but they do 
so they are being approached together. 
 
If the user has any non-status move and is at 50% HP or below, there is a 4% chance of 
unchanged score, 31% of -3 score, and 65% of -6 score. In addition, regardless of moves or 
current HP, the move gets +2 score 77% of the time if the pokemon also knows either Protect or 
Detect. 
 
This means that a pokemon with a damaging move will almost never use either Toxic or Leech 
Seed, if however it is a pokemon running four status moves it will have a chance to use them 
regardless of their HP, and a very high chance to do so if they have Protect. 
Low HP Moves 
            Moves: Flail, Reversal 
These moves have their AI determined almost deterministically off HP thresholds, although the 
HP thresholds are different depending on whether the user or the target of the move is faster. 
 
If the user is slower than the target, the HP thresholds are -1 at >60% HP, +0 at >40% HP, and 
61% chance of +1 at 40% HP or below. 
 
If the user is faster than the target, the HP thresholds are -1 at >33% HP, +0 if >20% HP, +1 if 
<8% HP. In addition, likely due to a bug, the final HP threshold of what would be 12-20% is 
actually 0-20% with a 61% of +1. This overlap allows for a pokemon that is faster and below 8% 
HP to achieve +2 from this part. 
 
There is no real way to simplify this, it avoids using Flail or Reversal when it's not at low HP, and 
is much more willing to use them if it's slower. Just look at the HP thresholds and know that it 
has a high chance of just going for this move at low HP, note these are power 1 moves so were 
not factored into the normal highest damage calculations. 
Magic Coat 
            Moves: Magic Coat 
Magic Coat has two variables for determining score, whether the user is low HP, and whether it 
is the first turn the pokemon is out. 
 
If the user has 30% or less HP, it has a 61% chance of -1 score. In addition, it is 39% of +1 if it is 
the first turn it is out, and 88% of -1 if it is not the first turn it is out. 
 
This combines to ensure that if it is not the first turn a pokemon is out, it will almost never use 
Magic Coat (~6% of +0), even if at high HP, and the chance drops dramatically once at low HP. 
Pain Split 
            Moves: Pain Split 
If the target has less than 80% HP, the move gets -1 score. If the target instead has high HP, 
then this move gets a +1 score if the user is below 40% if faster, or 60% if slower, and -1 if the 
user is above this threshold. 
 
Due to this, the AI will basically never use Pain Split unless you are at very high HP, and it is on 
low HP. 
Paralyzing Moves 
            Moves: Glare, Stun Spore, Thunder Wave 
If the target is faster than the user, there is a 92% chance of +3 score. If the user is faster than 
the target, the move gets -1 score if 70% HP or less. 
 
As a result, this is extremely likely to occur as a form of speed control. However, when not 
speed controlling it should only be used while at high HP, and with only +0 score. Note that due 
to being a status move with +3, if you have a pokemon double weak to it out (such as Gyarados 
with Thunder Wave) it is possible to reach the +5 total and thus override the choice to use a 
move that kills. 
Poisoning Moves 
            Moves: Poisonpowder 
If the user has less than 50% HP or the target has 50% HP or less, this move gets a -1 score. 
The AI does not like poisoning pokemon when either side is getting close to KO. 
Priority 
            Moves: Extremespeed, Ice Shard, Mach Punch, Quick Attack, Shadow Sneak 
The only special logic here occurs in the previously addressed code about choosing kills with a 
priority move over kills with a non-priority move.  
Protecting Moves 
            Moves: Protect, Detect 
The AI discourages the use of protecting more than twice in a row, granting a -2 score on the 
third and later turns, and running none of the additional logic which might incentivise it. 
 
If the user is badly poisoned, infatuated, or is under the effects of Perish Song, this logic just 
ends, leaving the move on +0 score. This is presumed to be some kind of bug, as it means it will 
happily protect while poisoned. 
 
Then the move always gets a +2 score as the circumstances to avoid this +2 are unavailable to 
the player in EK. In addition, at this point the move has a 50% chance of receiving an additional 
-1 score regardless of statuses, and then if the user successfully used Protect/Detect in their 
last turn gets an additional -1 or -2 score with 50/50 chance of each. 
 
Due to these, the AI generally heavily dislikes using Protect multiple turns in a row, although is 
more willing to for some reason if it is badly poisoned or under the effects of Perish Song, but 
the AI will spam Protect if the player is under these effects. 
Pursuit 
            Moves: Pursuit 
Pursuit receives +1 score 50% of the time if it is the first turn the pokemon is out and their target 
is a ghost or psychic type. So the AI should not use pursuit if it is not highest damage unless it is 
their first turn and you have a type weak to it, or there are other mitigating factors. 
Recharge 
            Moves: Blast Burn, Frenzy Plant, Hydro Cannon, Hyper Beam 
Note first, that as a recharge move is discouraged that it does not receive the normal -1 if it is 
not the highest damage move. However, if the target resists the move then it does receive a -1 
score and the rest of the logic here is not run. 
 
If the target does not resist, then it checks relative speed and grants a -1 score if the user is at 
high HP. This is at least 60% HP if the user is slower, and 41% if the user is faster. This means 
that the AI will generally try to avoid the recharge turns unless it is at low HP, presumably 
considering it might not live to see it anyway. 
Recycle 
            Moves: Recycle 
This move receives a base -2 score unless the user would regain an encouraged item, if it 
would then it is instead an 80% chance of +1 and 20% of +0. The encouraged items are Chesto 
Berry, Lum Berry, and Starf Berry. 
 
As a result, Beauty Shirley's Chimecho should not use Recycle, as the Sitrus Berry is not on the 
list. All other three users of Recycle have Starf Berry, and thus will be highly likely to Recycle at 
any given time if possible unless it sees a kill or other high priority move. 
Rest 
            Moves: Rest 
There are three separate HP thresholds here, but they differ based on relative speed. Only a 
single HP threshold is used, despite high HP meeting multiple. 
 
First, if the user is faster and has 100% HP, this move gets -8 score, to ensure it should avoid 
using Rest if the move would be entirely worthless. 
 
Second, if the user is faster and has at least 50% HP, or slower with at least 71% HP, this move 
gets a -3 score. 
 
Third, if the user is faster and has at least 40% HP there is a 73% chance of -3 score, or is 
slower with at least 60% HP there is an 80% chance of -3 score. 
 
Finally, if either the user had too low HP for any threshold or the chance of -3 in the third 
threshold failed, there is a 96% chance of +3 score. 
 
Overall this is relatively intuitive, the AI prefers to use Rest when it is at low HP, and is more 
lenient about what low HP is if slower. 
Revenge 
            Moves: Revenge 
Revenge gets a +2 score 27% of the time if the user is not asleep, infatuated, or confused, if the 
chance fails or it has a relevant status it instead gets -2 score. This means that you always have 
to watch out for Revenge on pokemon that have it, as it is always a small but significant chance 
of occurring. 
Screens 
            Moves: Light Screen, Reflect 
Light Screen and Reflect are treated differently, but are fundamentally the same except for 
physical specialness so are grouped here. 
 
If the user of the move is below 50% HP, the move gets a -2 score to significantly discourage it 
from being used. If they had at least 50% HP and the target has a type corresponding to the 
move, then the move gets no change in score leaving it at probably +0. If however the target 
does not have a type applicable to the move, there is an 80% chance of -2 score. 
 
As a result, the AI will normally only use Reflect or Light Screen when it would block one of your 
pokemons types, and it is above half HP, but has a small chance (~10%) of doing it even without 
your pokemon being the relevant type. 
Self KO moves 
            Moves: Explosion, Selfdestruct 
First, remember that these are discouraged move, and as normal types can never get the +2 for 
being double super-effective, so these moves will always start at 0 base score. 
 
The logic for this move is based almost entirely off HP thresholds. These are as follows. 
 
HP Threshold 
Scoring 
80-100% 
80% chance of -1 score, or -3 score if the user is faster. 
51-79% 
80% chance of -1 score 
30-50% 
50% chance of +1 score 
0-29% 
40% chance of +2 score, 50% chance of +1 score, 10% chance of nothing 
 
The distinction between -1 and -3 score at high HP rarely matters, as both make the move score 
below the highest damage move value of +0. The general logic most people will care about, 
assuming no other moves with special logic or kills, the AI has about a 10% chance of exploding 
at 51%+ HP, a 75% chance at 30%+ HP, and a 95% chance at 30%+ HP. 
Semi Invulnerable Moves 
            Moves: Bounce, Dig, Dive, Fly 
First, if the AI knows that you have either Protect or Detect, the move receives -1 score and thus 
is unlikely to ever get picked. It does not even run any of the additional logic to encourage it 
further. 
 
Next there is a 69% chance of +1 score if any of the following three criteria are met: if the user is 
faster than the target; if the target is badly poisoned or under the effects of leech seed; or it is 
either a Hail or Sandstorm, and the user is immune to the other one of these weathers. 
 
This is indeed switched, Ice types stall with these moves in Sandstorm, and Ground, Rock, and 
Steel types in Hail. There is no simple summary here, just check to see if any of the criteria are 
met. 
Sleep Talk 
            Moves: Sleep Talk 
This move gets +10 score if the user is asleep, and -5 if they are not asleep. This stacks with 
the normal -8 for using it while not asleep due to it being a bad move. This means it should 
always be picked while asleep, and never while awake. 
Sleeping Moves 
            Moves: Grasswhistle, Hypnosis, Lovely Kiss, Sing, Sleep Powder, Spore, Yawn 
If the target has Dream Eater or Nightmare, this move gets +1 score 50% of the time. Note this 
checks whether the target knows said move, which is presumably a bug and it should check the 
user's moveset but it does not. In addition, the only pokemon that learns either of these moves 
is Noctowl which requires a Heart Scale to use Dream Eater. 
 
As a result of those factors, sleep inducing moves will normally receive no change in score from 
their base. 
Snore 
            Moves: Snore 
Snore always receives a bonus +2 score. It still receives a -8 score while awake as a bad move 
however.  
 
There is a quirk that can occur due to this, since a move receives +4 score for being a kill, a 
snore that kills while the user is awake sits at a total of -2 score. As Rest normally sits at -3 
score while at high HP, a pokemon running Rest, Snore, and two other moves which should not 
be used (such as Curse while already at +6) a pokemon can pick Snore over Rest, seeing the -2 
as better than the -3. Norman is the only practical case for this in most cases, as most Snorlax 
in EK have a second damaging move. 
Special Attack Boosting Moves 
            Moves: Tail Glow 
The use of these moves is somewhat complicated, being based on both the user's current HP 
and current attack stages. If the user is at +3 special attack or higher, there is a 61% of an 
additional -1 score beyond the following table. 
 
 
100% HP 
If the user is at +2 attack or lower, there is a 50% chance of +1 score, and 
otherwise no change. 
71-99% HP 
No change. 
40-70% HP 
84% of -2 score 
0-39% HP 
-2 score 
 
Due to this, the AI is very unlikely to ever boost if already boosted to at least +3, or at 70% or 
lower HP. It should essentially never boost if at less than 40% HP if it has any alternatives. It is 
however very likely to boost if it is unboosted and at full HP. 
Special Defense Boosting Moves 
            Moves: Cosmic Power, Stockpile, Calm Mind, Amnesia 
These moves are encouraged if the user has 100% HP and is +2 special defense or lower, with 
a 50% chance of +2 score. If the user has at least +3 special defense, there is a 61% chance of 
-1 score. 
 
If the user has less than 40% HP, it receives an additional -2 score. If the user is at least 70% 
HP, there is a 78% chance to not run the final check. 
 
The final check runs if the check while above 70% HP fails, or while the pokemon is between 
40% and 70% HP.  It checks the most recently used move by the target, with chances of 100% if 
physical, 59% if special, and 77% if status, it applies a -2 score. 
 
Overall this means that the AI is reasonably likely to lead with a special defense boosting move 
if it has one, around 75% chance normally. If it has had its HP lowered however the chance is 
much smaller, dropping significantly once it drops below 70% HP, and to effectively zero when 
below 40% HP. 
Special Defense Lowering Moves 
            Moves: Fake Tears 
If the user has less than 70% HP, or the target is already down to -3 stages or lower, there is an 
80% chance of -2 score. If the user has 70% HP or lower, there is an automatic -2 score. 
 
Those do stack, causing a pokemon at less than 70% HP to normally give this move -4 score. 
The AI really does not like lowering your special defense while it is at low to middling HP. 
Speed Boosting Moves 
            Moves: Agility 
The AI gives this move -3 score if it is already faster than your pokemon, if it is slower than that 
it has a 73% chance of +3 score and 27% chance of +0 score, producing an 86% chance of 
using it if there are no other unusually weighted moves. 
Speed Lowering Moves 
            Moves: Icy Wind, Mud Shot, Rock Tomb, String Shot, Scary Face 
Similar to speed boosting moves, this receives -3 score if the user is faster than their target. If 
however the user is slower than their target, there is a 73% chance of +2 score. As a result, the 
AI will attempt to use the move 86% of the time for the status moves. 
 
For the damaging moves in this list, it means that 73% of the time it will use it over the highest 
damage move, and it won't use it while faster unless it sees a kill. Even a kill is only +1 net 
score, and thus will get looked over for other kill moves or even a lot of other moves that can hit 
+2 or higher. 
Substitute 
            Moves: Substitute 
This move uses stacking HP thresholds, unlike most moves that care about HP thresholds. 
What this means is that for each HP threshold the user is under of 50%, 70%, and 90% HP the 
AI will have a 61% chance of -1 score, potentially being up to -3 score if below 50% HP and all 
three chances succeed. 
 
After these initial checks, the AI runs an additional check but only if it is faster than the target. In 
this case, if the most recent move used by the target was a status move that poisons, badly 
poisons, burns, paralyzes, confuses, or sleeps and the user does not have the relevant status 
the move has a 61% chance of getting +1 score. 
 
Due to these, the AI likes using substitute to protect against status moves, but only if it 
outspeeds in the turn following the use of the status move, and the AI generally likes Substitute 
less if at low HP. 
Super Fang 
            Moves: Super Fang 
Super Fang gets -1 score if the target has more than half their health remaining, causing the AI 
to avoid it while you're at low HP as makes intuitive sense. 
Trapping 
            Moves: Sand Tomb, Whirlpool, Wrap, Mean Look, Spider Web 
If the target is under badly poisoned, infatuated, or under the effects of Perish Song there is a 
50% chance of +1, allowing the move to get picked to trap you with these conditions even if not 
highest damage, or making the move significantly more likely for the status moves. 
Vital Throw 
            Moves: Vital Throw 
This move is not a discouraged move, and this logic only decreases score, so is only really 
relevant in the case that the move kills or is highest damage. This logic also only runs if the user 
is slower than the target. If the user has 40-60% HP, there is a 24% chance of -1 score, and if 
the user is 0-39% HP then there is a 20% chance of -1 score.  
 
Due to the chances being relatively low, the AI should generally not get confused, but it is still 
worth noting as if vital throw is the highest damage it may cause the AI to go random move if the 
chances are triggered. 
Water Sport 
            Moves: Water Sport 
If the user has at least 50% HP and the target is Fire Type, this move gets +2 score, otherwise it 
gets -1 score.  
 
It is however only on a single optional trainer, but if you bring fire types against that trainer which 
leads Milotic and Wailord it should open with a Water Sport assuming for some reason Milotic's 
Hydro Pump doesn't kill. 
Weather 
            Moves: Hail, Rain Dance, Sunny Day 
These moves all have largely identical logic so are grouped. Note that the Moves list is correct, 
Sandstorm does not have any special logic. 
 
If the move is Rain Dance, and the user has the Swift Swim ability, and the user is slower than 
the target, then the move gets +1 score from this check instead of running the normal weather 
logic. The three moves otherwise function identically except for the weather type being checked. 
 
The moves receive -1 score if the user is below 40% HP, and +1 score if the weather is currently 
one of the other three weather conditions. If both would apply, only the -1 score is applied. As a 
result, the AI is reluctant to use weather if you can get it to low HP before it sets it up. Setting a 
different weather is only possible in the postgame as Smeargle is the only pokemon which can 
learn weather setting moves so is mostly irrelevant. 
Other Moves 
            Moves: Acid, Air Slash, Ancientpower, Assist, Attract, Aurora Beam, Bite, Blizzard, Body 
Slam, Bone Rush, Bubblebeam, Camouflage, Confusion, Crunch, Crush Claw, Cut, Defense 
Curl, Double Kick, Double-edge, Draco Meteor, Dragon Rage, Dragonbreath, Earth Power, 
Earthquake, Egg Bomb, Ember, Extrasensory, Fire Blast, Fire Punch, Flame Wheel, 
Flamethrower, Flash Cannon, Follow Me, Force Palm, Frustration, Gunk Shot, Gust, Head 
Smash, Headbutt, Heat Wave, Helping Hand, Hi Jump Kick, Hidden Power, HP Bug, HP 
Electric, HP Fighting, HP Fire, HP Flying, HP Ghost, HP Grass, HP Ground, HP Ice, HP 
Psychic, HP Rock, HP Water, Horn Attack, Hydro Pump, Hyper Voice, Ice Ball, Ice Beam, Ice 
Punch, Ingrain, Iron Tail, Jump Kick, Lick, Luster Purge, Magnitude, Mega Kick, Megahorn, 
Metal Claw, Meteor Mash, Metronome, Mist Ball, Mud-slap, Muddy Water, Nature Power, 
Needle Arm, Night Shade, Nightmare, Octazooka, Overheat, Pay Day, Peck, Perish Song, Petal 
Dance, Poison Fang, Poison Sting, Poison Tail, Powder Snow, Present, Psybeam, Psychic, 
Psycho Boost, Psywave, Return, Rock Slide, Rock Smash, Rock Throw, Rolling Kick, Rollout, 
Sacred Fire, Safeguard, Sand-attack, Sandstorm, Secret Power, Seismic Toss, Shadow Ball, 
Signal Beam, Silver Wind, Sky Attack, Sky Uppercut, Sludge Bomb, Sonicboom, Spikes, Steel 
Wing, Stomp, Superpower, Surf, Tackle, Teeter Dance, Teleport, Thief, Thrash, Thunder, 
Thunderbolt, Thunderpunch, Thundershock, Transform, Tri Attack, Twister, Uproar, Volt Tackle, 
Water Gun, Water Pulse, Water Spout, Waterfall, Weather Ball, Weather Ball (Fire), Weather 
Ball (Water), Wild Charge, Will-o-Wisp, Wing Attack, Wish 
 
All moves in this section have no special logic under normal smart AI. They are listed here 
merely for reference. 
 
Setup First Turn 
This encourages the AI to like moves that the game considers as "setup moves", but only 
applies on the first turn of the battle. If a move is considered a setup move, it has ~31% chance 
of getting a +2 score. 
 
What the game considers as setup moves are as follows 
Stat increasing moves (Except Dragon Dance) 
Stat lowering moves 
Light Screen, Reflect, Focus Energy, Substitute, and Ingrain 
Status moves that confuse, poison (except Toxic), burn, or paralyze, but not moves that sleep 
Substitute, Leech Seed, Curse, Torment, and Imprison 
Conversion (but not Conversion2), and Camouflage 
Analysis 
Due to the limited list, and only applying on the very first turn of battle, this flag is largely 
irrelevant. In fact, in EK there is only a single trainer it matters for, Cooltrainer Wendy having a 
higher chance of using Confuse Ray on turn one. 
Risky 
The infamous Risky AI, bringer of RNG. Risky AI is extremely straightforward, if a move is a 
risky move, the AI will have a 50% chance of giving it +2 points. 
 
Risky moves are as follows 
Attract, Counter, Destiny Bond, Focus Punch, Mirror Coat 
Sleep moves (Sleep Powder, Hypnosis, Lovely Kiss, Spore) 
Exploding (Self Destruct, Explosion) 
High critical moves (Drill Run, X-Scissors, Cross Chop, Dragon Claw) 
Confusing moves (Confuse Ray, Teeter Dance) 
Omniboosting moves (Ancient Power) 
Analysis 
Overall not too much to watch out for here, but be on guard as the element of RNG added 
makes any AI with this flag much less predictable. 
Double Battle 
This is the flag that tries to make the AI act smart in double battles, and this is the only flag the 
AI cares about when considering whether it should use a move on an ally. 
 
There are two primary sections of logic here, the logic for using moves on allies and the logic for 
using moves on the player. 
 
First, if the target is an ally.  
●    If the move is Will-o-Wisp or Toxic and the ally has Guts, is not statused, and has at least 
91% HP, +5 points 
●    If the move is Skill Swap and the ally has Truant, +10 points 
●    If the move is Skill Swap, the user has Compound Eyes, and the ally has Thunder, +3 
points 
If none of the above criteria were met, then it gets -30 points ensuring it will never use the move 
on an ally. 
 
Next, in doubles battles when checking whether to use against the player. Importantly it checks 
these all in order and stops once one matters. 
 
●    If the move is Skill Swap, +5 points if the user has Truant; +2 points if the target has 
Shadow Tag or Pure Power; and no change otherwise 
●    If considering using Earthquake or Magnitude and their ally is immune, +2; if their ally is 
weak, -10 points; and -3 points otherwise. 
●    If considering using an electric move, and the targets partner has Lightning Rod; -10 if 
the partner is ground type, -2 if not. 
●    If the AI does not have Guts and is statused; -5 to power 1, discouraged, and status 
moves; +3 to highest damage move; +1 to non-best damaging moves. 
Analysis 
The AI really likes using Toxic on an ally with Guts, which is very significant for the Tyra & Ivy 
fight as this is a higher priority than even a sure kill. The AI also prioritises using skill swap on an 
ally with Truant over just about anything else possible, and so should always open with that on 
Norman. 
 
The logic behind the use of moves on the player is slightly more complex. The AI will like using 
skill swap to lose truant, and has almost no chance of ever picking something else which is why 
Espeon nearly always does this on turn two of the Norman fight. 
 
Earthquake logic can be seen multiple times, but just generally means that earthquake is likely 
to get picked in a double battle if the ally is immune even if it is not the highest damage move, 
as long as at least one of the player's pokemon is not immune to it. 
 
The final component is quite rare due to SHF spamming lum berries like they're required to 
exist, but it does cause the AI to incessantly avoid any status or discouraged move if it is 
statused in a double battle. 
Appendix 
Ability Knowledge 
The AI in many cases will try to act based off its knowledge of the player's abilities. The AI does 
not innately know the abilities of the player's pokemon. The AI always starts with no knowledge 
on the ability of a freshly switched in pokemon, even if it has been in previously in the battle. 
 
If the AI has no knowledge on the ability of a pokemon and tries to do something based off the 
ability of a pokemon, it will blindly guess what ability the pokemon has. As a result, on pokemon 
with only a single ability it will know what ability the pokemon has as it is aware of the 
possibilities. For the most part, the AI gains knowledge of an ability when it is used, as would 
make sense. 
Intimidate Knowledge Glitch 
 
There are two major exceptions to the above rules, these are Intimidate and Trace. Trace rather 
than making the AI believe the ability is Trace makes it believe it is the ability copied with Trace. 
The notable exception with these however is that the AI does not believe the pokemon using the 
ability is the one with Intimidate or Trace, but rather the player's pokemon is the one with it. In a 
double battle it is the left pokemon on the player's side. This overrides previous knowledge, 
causing use of Intimidate or Trace to cause the AI to "forget" about your ability, and works even 
on pokemon with only a single ability.  
 
For example, if Gengar is out and the AI switches in an Intimidate pokemon then the AI will 
believe that Gengar has Intimidate instead of Levitate until something happens like a ground 
move being used on Gengar to cause it to refresh knowledge of Levitate. This does not cause 
the AI to calculate damage incorrectly, as the damage calculation is separate from ability 
knowledge. 
Discouraged Moves 
Certain moves are discouraged when looking at powerful moves, and are treated differently as a 
result. The moves are as follows. 
●    Exploding Moves (Explosion, Self-Destruct) 
●    Charging Moves (Razor Wind, Solar Beam) 
●    Recharge Moves (Blast Burn, Hydro Cannon, Frenzy Plant, Hyper Beam) 
●    Dream Eater 
●    Focus Punch 
Power 1 Moves 
Some moves are internally implemented as having a power of 1, marking them as not a status 
move, but still not normal damaging moves. All of these are treated specially for how much 
damage they deal, and are listed below. 
●    Variable Power Moves (Flail, Magnitude, Present, Reversal) 
●    Reflecting Moves (Counter, Mirror Coat) 
●    Flat Damage Moves (Dragon Rage, Endeavor, Night Shade, Psywave, Seismic Toss, 
Sonic Boom, Super Fang) 
●    Bide 
●    Hidden Power 
Note that Hidden Power only applies to the original Hidden Power, which is extremely rarely 
used in game. 
Dual Non-Immunity Glitch 
Due to a bug, the AI does not see a pokemon that has its immunity in its first checked typing 
and a non-neutral matchup in its second checked typing. A manual scan indicates it applies only 
in the following five situations. 
●    Girafarig is not seen as immune to Ghost 
●    Gligar is not seen as immune to Electric 
●    Flygon is not seen as immune to Electric 
●    Scyther is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Butterfree is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Beautifly is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Yanma is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Masquerain is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Ninjask is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Skarmory is not seen as immune to Ground 
●    Aerodactyl is not seen as immune to Ground 
This doesn't matter most of the time as the AI still avoids damaging moves other than the 
highest damage, but it can matter for status moves. Most notably for EK, the AI is perfectly 
happy to use Thunder Wave on Flygon, and will prioritize it if the Flygon is faster as normal. 
 
For information on matchup priority, you can refer to the switching logic document here. 
Speed Ties 
In the case of a speed tie, the AI normally functions much as you would expect. When making 
this check, the game will decide at random each time it checks whether to treat the player or the 
AI as faster, identical to how it acts in actual battle. 
 
However, there is a bug in how it approaches this within the move choice code for the AI. As a 
result, normally when the AI checks whether the player or AI is faster when deciding on a move 
and there is a speed tie the AI will always act as if it was faster. There is no random chance. 
 
There is an exception, it works correctly within the Rain Dance logic. This is because due to the 
way the bug works, the AI only functions incorrectly when it checks whether the target is faster 
than the user, but it functions correctly when it checks whether the user is faster than the target. 
The latter only occurs within Rain Dance. 
